Hello everybody, welcome to our last talk of the day. This is Peter Lowe.
Am I going to be able to see them on the screen as well?
No.
Okay, I can look around.
Hello, this is Peter Lowe. He will be showing us many of the weird things people have done
with DNS to finish our day.
Thank you. First thing I should say is that this presentation normally takes about 40 minutes
because there's quite a lot of things to see, so I'm going to be running through it.
It's going to be a whirlwind tour of bizarre and unusual things that people have done with DNS.
Okay, so I'm going to skip through some of this stuff. This is all about who I am.
Normally I talk about myself a little bit, but nobody's really interested in that.
You've come to see the weird stuff, right?
I'm a security researcher. I do DNS stuff basically.
Bunch of different titles for this. Not very clickbaity.
This is an intro to DNS. I'm assuming that everybody knows what that is here, so we'll skip over that.
This is how it all started, which is part of the DNS Abuse Special Interest Group for FIRST.
I'm the co-chair. John Todd from Quad9 joked about some malware distribution via DNS.
We thought, that's not possible. Wait, hang on.
So we started going and collecting some other stuff.
Yes, a lot of these aren't around anymore, unfortunately. It's kind of like a museum of weird DNS things.
Some of them still work, but there's a bunch of links at the end.
If you're interested in any of these, I've tried to put resources and links to everything that you'll see.
So, first section, trace routes. Not 100% DNS, but basically it works by setting up a static route
and then making sure that the reverse DNS maps back to something interesting.
So, this was one of the first things I ever saw, the Star Wars intro via DNS.
It was by a guy called Ryan... I'm going to be looking up here as well, by the way, because I can't remember all the details of these.
Ryan Werber from BeedleNet in 2013. It was one of the things I saw and thought, oh, how does that work?
And it kind of got me interested in some of the stranger parts of DNS.
There's an IPv6 version out there somewhere. It went down very quickly because of a DDoS.
It's typical for a lot of these things, unfortunately.
There is this one, which is hand.bb0.nl.
This, as you can see, displays a hand and it's done over IPv6.
If you increase the number of hops, it does get more interesting as it goes on.
This is the only space I had for on the slide, so...
Yeah.
Sebastian Haas, who will be featured multiple times in this presentation, I hope he's here, but if not, hi, Sebastian.
He put up a thing where you could trace and find the live scores from the Euro 2020 match, which was pretty impressive.
He also wrote a thing called Fake Root or Faker Tea, which allows you to set up IPv6 roots on your local machine.
This is another one from Makerforce. This is some alternate lyrics to American Pie, which I'm sure you're all familiar with.
Bad Horse. If anybody here is a fan of Dr Horrible's sing-along, there is a semi-famous thing in it called Bad Horse, where he sings a little song.
We have the lyrics here. If you go and have a look at the SSL certificate chain for Bad.Horse, yeah, signed up, Bad.Horse, there's a little Easter egg there as well.
This is a screenshot of Dr Horrible.
And the first time I did this, Andrew Campling, who's an encrypted DNS guy and other stuff, he said, let's put something festive in, so I went out and had a look.
And of course, someone's done a Christmas dream, so there's another one.
Tools and toys.
One of the first things I found was at post-elder-org, which I think is a great place to be hosting something interesting.
It's a calculator. It's not as good as Stefan Bortzmeyer's, where you can actually put the plus character in, and it's not around anymore.
I put this, there's a reverse Polish calculator out there.
Apparently, this is a reverse Polish calculator, so it shows how much I know about maths.
This is one of the more interesting ones, and there's kind of a bunch of different versions of this.
It's a local IP echo. It tells you what your public-facing IP address is.
It's actually quite useful, because in scripts, instead of just doing a curl request in myip.org or whatever, this is going to get an answer much quicker, and it's much more easily scriptable.
Yes, this one is the MyIP service from Google.
As everybody knows, Google is famous for discontinuing services, but they're never going to let the DNS service go.
There's some tools here for network admins, some IP to ASN translators, lots of different options.
There's Team Cymru. There's an example here. There's some other ones out there, if you go looking for them.
There is an example here. I think this is from Tony Finch. This is postcodes, which will translate them to... Oh, and Jan-Pit, men, sorry.
And this will give you the geolocation for postcodes in the UK. I think Jan-Pit did some... Oh, yeah, this is also the airport codes, I think.
I'm also missing my talk... speaker notes, by the way, so forgive me for this.
And DNS.toys, this is a great site. They put up a bunch of different things that you can look at.
There's World Time, IP Echo, another one. Number to Words. I genuinely don't know what this is useful for.
I don't know why anybody would use it, but it's kind of fun to have it out there.
This is one of my favorite ones. I'm quite a fan of geocaching. I don't know if you guys know about it, but it's like Pokémon Go for geeks.
And you get to go out in the world and find things that are out there. There is one geocache which has the author of Mokopetris,
but it's unfortunately not Dr. Paul Mokopetris. This is, again, Sebastian Haas, I think.
And it's basically a hostname, and if you look up the text record for it, it gives you the hint for the first part of the geocache, which is... I love it, personally.
There's a text adventure out there. This is very cool. I mean, this is what you want from DNS, right?
A guy called Craig Mayhew, you look up different hostnames and it gives you different options,
and he uses round-robin DNS for random decision trees, so it's pretty cool.
Tunnelling. Okay, so people's definition of tunnelling varies, right?
It can be a simple kind of like C2 communication, or it could be full file extraction over DNS.
I've got some examples here. If you want to discuss what tunnelling means exactly, let's meet afterwards and fight.
This is an intro to tunnelling which I found from Slashdot in 2000, but the general concept is the same.
Wikipedia over DNS by a guy called David Ledbetter. This is very cool. It actually supports Unicode as well.
I don't think it works anymore, unfortunately, but it is basically...
He took a local copy of the XML dump and then installed it, I think, on PowerDNS, and you could look up pages via that.
Blogging, another very cool example where you look up... you publish text records and that is your static blog.
I love it because it's going to be fast. It actually works from a blog. All you really want is the content.
You can get the index, you can get specific posts, or order them by recently posted.
Now we're getting a little bit more into the words. This is IP over DNS. There is a library out there called Iodine,
which is the chemical element number 53, which is appropriate. It does full IP over DNS.
There are some examples of how this can be used later on.
I'm getting to the point where I lose words about how to describe this kind of stuff.
It's all brilliant, but this is like... yeah, I don't know.
HTTP over DNS, so we're getting even more crazy here.
This is browser tunnel. It's actually quite useful for some things if you're in certain situations like an airport or something like that,
where things might be a bit restricted. This is basically how it works.
It does raise the interesting concept of, if you're familiar with DNS over HTTPS,
HTTP over DNS over HTTPS.
This is pretty cool. It's called Slow DNS, and it's a full VPN over DNS, which is in the Google Play Store.
I haven't used it because it does include ads, and I've never actually got the courage to check it out properly.
But I think it's the kind of thing that can really work in airports and other restricted areas.
You run it, and it's a VPN that lets you access the internet, and it works over DNS.
A lot of places, DNS is going to be unrestricted, and this is going to help you out in those situations.
The ads thing... well, you know, give it a go, but the concept is amazing.
Another library that I found really cool is called DNS Cat 2.
You install a server, and you install a client, and then they communicate to each other over DNS packets.
You don't have to have an actual domain working at all. You don't have to register a domain.
It just uses the DNS protocol, and it's got a bunch of built-in functions like sending files and Windows and messages and stuff like that.
It's very cool. This is still on GitHub. There's a link at the end you'll see.
And a few other things. I don't know how much time I... oh, am I out of time?
Okay. The benefits of being the last person speaking.
Cory Quinn talked about how you can use DNS as a full config management system.
This is the BIMI brand indicators, which works over DNS. It uses TST records, which start with underscore BIMI.
A full contact database. Somebody in the UK has created a whole protocol and used it to put the yellow pages online,
and they've got an SDK and all sorts of crazy stuff.
There is dnskv.com, which is a full key value store. This works. This guy is quite dedicated to it.
I have to say I'm quite impressed. Some really good documentation. Go check it out.
A file system over DNS. Yeah. I know, right? I mean, why not? Okay.
Ben Cox was in the audience when I did this presentation once, and I have to say I totally lost my...
It's amazing. There's an example of him on Twitter streaming an MP3 over DNS, and it's working. It's just a magical...
Here you go. Here's the links at the end. Questions? There you go.
Any questions for Peter? No? Thank you, Peter. Thank you all. Be here. Have a good day.